{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1038\cocoasubrtf350
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid2}
{\list\listtemplateid3\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid201\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid3}
{\list\listtemplateid4\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid301\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid4}
{\list\listtemplateid5\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid401\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid5}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}{\listoverride\listid3\listoverridecount0\ls3}{\listoverride\listid4\listoverridecount0\ls4}{\listoverride\listid5\listoverridecount0\ls5}}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Story time!\
\
Story 1\
Once upon a time, there lived a man named Esperanza. Esperanza was a song writer and a dreamer. Her family didn\'92t want her to be a musician, so she came up with a plan to trick her family that there is a guy who wants to marry her. Someone who was meek and shy where she could basically control him. When they\'92re about to get married, she freaks out and she wants to back out. Now this guy figures out how to manipulate her / double-crosses her and black \'96mails her into getting married.\
\
Story 2\
Once upon a time, there were two people very much in love and there was nothing that Chris wouldn\'92t do for Esperanza. When it\'92s discovered that her mother and father are discovered that they are in the United States illegally, they are forced to leave the country. Because Chris loves Esperanza, he marries her to keep her from leaving and to hopefully one day petition the rest of her family to come back to America. \
\
Fast forward many years later, Chris is now a leader in the community and makes many decisions for the community. Even though, he\'92s under a lot of pressure, he still is in love with Esperanza. However, there are times when he feels that Esperanza doesn\'92t appreciate all that he does for her. Something changed within him and he slowly begins the cycle of abuse against Esperanza.\
\
When it got really bad, Chris would threaten her that he wouldn\'92t petition her family. He became abusive towards Esperanza, and it was never physical for the longest time, but eventually, he became that way. As the cycle goes, at first he was ALWAYS sorry for what he done, but then he started really blaming her for the way he was turning out. He was losing control of everything, and I guess, only through force and being controlling, this was the only way he felt like he had any power.\
\
Anyways, the story ends with his best friend finally tells Chris to stop his abuses against Esperanza. For the longest time, his friend, Elrick, had always had his back, but enough was enough for him. As well as for Elrick\'92s wife, Melissa.\
\
Melissa and Esperanza has been friends forever and another point when Esperanza felt all alone was when they had a falling apart. Since Elrick has always had Chris\'92s back, Melissa felt the pressure of Elrick to stay out of their business.\
\
The play ends with Esperanza finally being able to take a stand for herself and tells Chris that she\'92s leaving. He threatens her that she\'92ll never see her family again. Nor, that she will ever see her friends again. Puts blame on her for not standing by him. Her friend and Elrick stands up to Chris saying that everything that he\'92s been doing to Esperanza is wrong. \
\
\'93How long have I known you dude?\'94\
\'93Then you\'92re supposed to have my back.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92d have your back if I knew who you were. Nobody has a right to treat, especially your wife, the way that you are.\'94\
\
It ends with a confrontation where lines are drawn. The person who needed help gets it. This confrontation has to be set at the Filipino Club \'96 the symbol of the community, and a place where people are supposed to feel safe.\
\
\
Characters:\
Esperanza\
Chris \'96 Esperanza\'92s boyfriend/husband\
Elrick \'96 Chris\'92s Best friend\
Melissa \'96 Esperanza\'92s bff/Chris\'92s gf/wife\
\
Abigail \'96 Esperanza\'92s younger sister\
\
\
Themes:\
Domestic Violence\
Romance/Young Love\
Immigration\
Family vs. Community perceptions\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\ls1\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	\'95	}Family secrets\
{\listtext	\'95	}Shame\
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 \'93Maleness\'94 in Asian American Community\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\ls2\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	\'95	}Supposed to be in charge\
{\listtext	\'95	}Take control of family matters\
{\listtext	\'95	}Supposed to be financially in control\
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 Love\
Community Role\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\ls3\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	\'95	}Help one another, especially when there\'92s no one else to take care\
{\listtext	\'95	}Responsibility to do what\'92s right vs. not saying anything\
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
Questions:\
- If something stay\'92s quiet, then is there even a problem?\
- When there\'92s a problem in the family, then that\'92s where it should stay?\
- When does the issue effect the community?\
- When does it become the community\'92s problem?\
- If someone does stick their nose in someone else\'92s problems, does that segregate them out of the community?\
- When does sticking up for someone mean that it\'92s alright?\
- Should there be a balance between supporting someone and not getting involved?\
- Is the issue between, having courage vs. doing what\'92s right?\
- Community should work to foster each other\'92s talents and seek opportunities to use those talents for the betterment of each other and the community.\
\
Arc:\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\ls4\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	\'95	}Girl and Boy fall in love\
{\listtext	\'95	}She is a musician\
{\listtext	\'95	}He is an artist\
{\listtext	\'95	}He is irresponsible\
{\listtext	\'95	}They are both involved with the community and both are idealist on how the community should work together\
{\listtext	\'95	}She finds out that her family is TnT after trying to apply for college grants\
{\listtext	\'95	}Her family is sent back to the PI\
{\listtext	\'95	}He can\'92t let her go, so he asks her to marry him, so that she can stay and hopefully petition her family to return to the states\
{\listtext	\'95	}He gives up his dream to be and artist (starting a magazine, a caf\'e9, poetry, and becomes an insurance salesman with his best friend) to support Her\
{\listtext	\'95	}The more he becomes disenfranchised with how his life is going, the more he blames her for the way his life turns out\
{\listtext	\'95	}Begins abusing alcohol and eventually her\
{\listtext	\'95	}She tries to get him back on his feet by getting him involved with the community again \'96 to help instead of being defeated\
{\listtext	\'95	}He eventually becomes a leader in the community again\
{\listtext	\'95	}He becomes jealous of Her and the friends she keeps as her singing and music are becoming famous\
{\listtext	\'95	}Everything comes to a head, when he accuses her in public of fabricating all these stories, when in fact, everyone sees this rage against her.\
{\listtext	\'95	}His best friend eventually stops him\
{\listtext	\'95	}The friend\'92s tell her to stay with them and leave him\
{\listtext	\'95	}Everything\'92s cool for a while and He seems to finally have his stuff together\
{\listtext	\'95	}He begs her to come back\
{\listtext	\'95	}She tells him that he needs counciling and that\'92s where he gets it from My Sister\'92s House\
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
Reflections about the above is that the story feels like it is that he is the Protagonist. I have to work to turn this story around to make it center around Esperanza. Find the \'93plotpoints\'94 where it becomes her story and find her ARC \'96 both the story and emotional points.\
\
\
Structure:\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\ls5\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	\'95	}Open with someone answering the phone \'93Hello. This is My Sister\'92s House. This is Amy. How can I help you? \'94\
{\listtext	\'95	}Bookend structure.\
{\listtext	\'95	}\uc0\u8232 \
{\listtext	\'95	}End the play with \'93Hello. This is My Sister\'92s House. This is Esperanza. How can I help you?\'94\
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
\
Story 3\
- Open with a song about/called Hope.\
- Light\'92\
\
- open with song about hope\
- special over woman \'93Hello. This is My Sister\'92s House. This is Amy. How can I help you?\'94\
- Esperanza goes back to the table with her friend, Melissa.\
- Enter Melissa\'92s boyfriend Elrick with his friend Chris\
- Spoken word piece about being a man\
- Esperanza and Chris meet\
- Then they start their courtship\
  - talk about community\
- Esperanza is a strong person who\
\
I\'92m trying to write a story and this is not working. FOCUS. RESPECT.\
\
So the play opens up in a caf\'e9 as we meet the couple of our story, Esperanza and Chris. Esperanza is a singer/songwriter with a great attitude with an amazing smile that never stops throughout the first act. We want to see this change in the second act. She is full of confidence and actually doesn\'92t care about anything she does. She\'92s a little awkward, but she\'92s happy being that way. She writes happy music. She symbolizes happiness, truth in being. Her nickname is Anza. Za. Zi. Esperanza. Hope.\
\
Chris is a strong personality himself and is sure of himself and all of his dreams. He\'92s one of the last people that we would ever suspect to have a violent streak in him, but then again, maybe that\'92s where this drama unfolds. \
\
Where did I go with this. \
}