{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1038\cocoasubrtf350
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Esperanza Means Hope\
\
Theme: Esperanza finally gets the independence that she has lost to her husband, Manny.\
\
Scene\
\
The 10\super th\nosupersub  anniversary of the club opening and people are about and they scene is where things happen.\
\
People are dressed up and there are people setting up the chairs\
\
Work on the theme. Urgh. Nothing\'92s coming to me. Where do we first meet Esperanza? What is she doing? Do we see her in her element? How does the abuse unfold?\
\
Manny\
Where is she?\
\
Danilo\
Is that Manny? Get him out of here?\
\
+++\
\
When I get stuck, I like to go into monologue mode:\
\
I couldn\'92t believe that he came here. I couldn\'92t believe that he is awake. How did I get myself in this situation? I have to go talk to him. Shut up! He\'92s causing a scene. I\'92m sorry. I\'92m so sorry that everyone has to see this. Look at mom\'92s face in horror. I didn\'92t know that he\'92d be like this. Plesase go away. Well, you know that he won\'92t go away if I ignore him, so I\'92ll just have to go there.\
\
Esperanza\
What are you doing here?\
\
Manny\
Come on. Let\'92s go.\
\
Esperanza\
I can\'92t. Not now.\
\
Manny\
Why are you looking at me like that? Don\'92t look at me like that. You wanna say something?\
\
\
Esperanza\
Okay. Let\'92s go.\
\
Manny\
Wait, they party\'92s just beginning cuz I\'92m here!\
\
Esperanza\
I said let\'92s go. You\'92re causing a scene.\
\
Manny\
I\'92m not a scene, I\'92m a whole movie! Check me out!\
\
Esperanza\
You\'92re being stupid\'85\
\
Okay, stop. This isn\'92t making sense because this isn\'92t the person that Esperanza would go for. Why would he be a drunk. That\'92s too stereotypical and I\'92m done with that. Where else can I take this? What else can I explore?\
\
What is the plot of this story? \
Well, it\'92s about how a woman tries to leave an abusive relationship. BUZZ! Boring. I\'92m sorry. Let me try this: This story is about a woman who tries to find cover for being a failure. Her marriage is failing. She doesn\'92t know what she wants in life. She\'92s afraid that she\'92s going to be discovered for being a fake. \
\
Maria\
You have it all. You know that. If I could only be as lucky as you then my life would be perfect.\
\
Esperanza\
I\'92m just like every person. \
\
Maria\
But you\'92re so well taken care of.\
\
Esperanza\
I try.\
\
Maria\
That\'92s the thing. You don\'92t have to try, Esperanza. \
\
Esperanza\
You can have it too?\
\
Maria\
I don\'92t see any cops asking to see me to be their wife.\
\
Esperanza\
I got lucky is all.\
\
Maria\
Manny being fine is not lucky. \
\
Esperanza\
Is that all you can think about?\
\
Maria\
Yeah-uh.\
\
Okay what is this scene? I can see this taking place at a party at the club.\
\
On the surface everything looks fine. It\'92s like everything is fake, like jewelry. There\'92s all these secrets going around, and the only time people see the truth is behind closed doors. \
\
It\'92s like all these people are so busy covering up their lies of perfectness, that they start to believe these lies. It\'92s sad really. And this lie is Esperanza\'92s life. The two polar opposites is her trying to keep have her perfect family life, while her husband mentally and physically abuses her. Over time, she equates this with love. Does this sound too much of a clich\'e9?\
\
\
}