{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1038\cocoasubrtf350
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f1\fmodern\fcharset0 CourierNewPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 BORDERS\
\
_______\
\
\
A 10-minute Play\
\
by\
\
Conrad A. Panganiban\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
332 McDonnel Road\
Alameda, CA  94502\
Phone: (916) 813-9609\
E-mail: conrad@uptil3.com\
\
Revised: 03/24/11\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\qc\pardirnatural
\cf0 \ul \ulc0 Cast of Characters\
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 \ulc0 \
\
\
Clark Nobida\ulnone :				23 years old male.\
\ul Nida Soriano\ulnone :				20 years old female.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\qc\pardirnatural
\cf0 \ul \ulc0 Scene\
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 \ulc0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 \ulnone Busy caf\'e9 inside a bookstore. \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\qc\pardirnatural
\cf0 \ul \ulc0 Time\
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 \ulc0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 \ulnone Present.\
\
SETTING: The caf\'e9 at a BORDERS Bookstore. Two tables are side by side. At one table is a young college student, CLARK. He has several books on the table and he\'92s writing something in a notebook. He\'92s listening to some hip-hop music on his iPod and bobbing his head to the beat. At an adjacent table, NIDA is typing away at her laptop.\
\
\
NIDA\
(noticing a book on CLARK\'92s table)\
You\'92re gonna like that book.\
\
clark\
(taking off his earbuds)\
Excuse me...\
\
nida \
Gregory McGuire\'92s novel, WICKED. I was just saying that it\'92s a good book.\
\
clark\
Thanks.\
(CLARK puts back his earbuds and then starts bobbing his head.)\
\
(NIDA tries to get his attention again and succeeds.)\
\
NIDA\
Hi. Sorry to interrupt your musical flow, but I was just wondering if it was okay if I take a really quick look at that book.\
\
CLARK\
No. Have a blast.\
\
(CLARK hands the book to her and she immediately starts rifling through it.)\
\
\page nida\
I haven\'92t seen this book in a while. Don\'92t you think that it was so genius that the Wicked Witch of the West and Glenda the Good were like friends in college. Then they go \
off to see the Wizard together only to find out that he\'92s really out use Elphaba\'92s, the Wicked Witch of the West\'92s, powers to rule all of Oz. And then\'85 OHHH! And then, when she doesn\'92t want to help him, they come up with a plot to threaten to kill her sister\'85\
\
CLARK\
Thanks. I guess I can put the book back on the shelf now.\
\
NIDA\
Shoot. I am so sorry. My friends always tell me that I say way too much.\
\
CLARK\
No worries. It\'92s actually one of my favorite books too. I lent my copy to a friend before she packed up and moved to New York.\
\
Nida\
Must be nice.\
\
CLARK\
What?\
\
Nida\
You know, just to be able to just pack up and move. Especially there. Guess some people are just lucky to be able to\'85 just go.\
(pause)\
\
Sorry, I just took your book and went kinda zonkers there. Here ya go\'85\
\
(hands him the book)\
\
I\'92ll leave you alone now.\
\
CLARK\
It\'92s coo. Actually, I don\'92t think luck has a lot to do with packing up and leaving. The way I see it, you shouldn\'92t let anyone stop you from just\'85 going. I mean, that\'92s why I\'92m going. I figure if I\'92m going to be on Broadway one day I might as well see it first.\
\
\
Nida\
Fo realz? Are you like a dancer or a singer?\
\
Clark\
Let\'92s see. The last thing I sang tried to sing was 
\i \'93Don\'92t Stop Believin\'92\'94
\i0  at my Tito Boy\'92s birthday party, which I scored a whopping 23 on the Magic Sing. And I\'92m definitely not a dancer since I can\'92t even do the Electric Slide right. \
\
(attempts to do the Electric Slide and almost falls) \
\
I think I\'92ll stick to acting, thank you very much.\
\
Nida\
Get outta here!\
\
Clark\
Okay.\
(gets his books and stands to leave)\
\
nida\
I was kidding.\
\
Clark\
(sits back down)\
Oh, I knew that.\
\
Nida\
No, I just meant that I act as well.\
\
Clark\
Cool-dealio. So when will I see the name, Nida, up in lights?\
\
Nida\
How\'92d you know that my name was Nida?\
\
Clark\
Um\'85 I kinda assumed that it was from the name on your name tag\'85 that you\'92re wearing. But if your name isn\'92t Nida, then, 
\i (suspiciously)
\i0  what did you do to Nida?\
\
NIDA\
Cute.\
\
Clark\
(pops his collar)\
Thanks.\
\
Nida\
You\'92re incredible.\
\
Clark\
So I\'92ve been told.\
\
Nida\
No. I mean. Yes, you are safe to assume that my name is Nida. But, no, I don't think you'll see the name, Nida Soriano, up in lights any time soon.\
\
CLARK\
Nida. Interesting name. Now, that\'92s... cute.\
\
NIDA\
Uh... thanks.\
\
CLARK\
I'm Clark, by the way. It's a pleasure to meet you, Nida.\
\
(They both shake hands and smile. Nida abruptly lets go and looks around and goes back to typing in her laptop. They both look at each other and start to laugh, then she winces in pain.)\
\
\
NIDA\
Ow!\
(grabs her side)\
\
\
CLARK\
Are you okay?\
\
NIDA\
Yeah. I just\'85 overstretched my side while\'85 working out. It only hurts when I laugh, so no jokes, \'91kay?\
\
\page CLARK\
Who me? Pshh\'85 (pause) So, what did the banana say to the frying pan?\
\
NIDA\
What.\
\
CLARK\
(puts up hands saying a magician\'92s TA-DA!)\
Turon!\
\
(Nida starts to laugh and winces again. Clark starts to stand to give assistance, but Nida puts up her hand saying, Stop. Clark sits back down with concern on his face.)\
\
CLARK\
My bad. I promise no more jokes.\
\
NIDA\
Thanks. Especially bad ones like that.\
\
CLARK\
Touch\'e9. So, if I\'92m not going to see your name up in lights, why\'92d you quit acting?\
\
Nida\
I just\'85 did. (beat) What about you? Why do you feel the need to bare your soul in front of strangers?\
\
Clark\
Probably the same reason I read books like WICKED - to escape from the problems of this reality and to go somewhere and be someone else even if it\'92s just for a couple of hours.\
\
Nida\
That\'92s pretty deep.\
\
\page Clark\
Well, it\'92s to meet girls too. I mean, I get the best photos of me during the show\'92s press shoots. Post those picts up on Tumblr and FaceBook and I\'92m in!\
\
Nida\
I\'92m sure.\
\
Clark\
What else would I do on those sites? Sit down and write a sob story about my mom dying last year on Wordpress. I don\'92t think so.\
\
Nida\
I\'92m sorry about your mom. I know what that\'92s like.\
\
clark\
Thanks.\
\
nida\
But, you know sometimes having a blog is like the only friend you can talk to when you feel like you don\'92t have anyone else to lean on. 
\i (pause)
\i0  Besides, there's so many blogs out there, I don't think anybody cares about my ho-hum existence that some call life.\
\
CLARK\
You think?\
\
NIDA\
I know. 
\i (beat) 
\i0 You know this is crazy. I don\'92t normally talk to strangers about stuff.\
\
Clark\
But, you really haven\'92t told me anything, like\'85 where you\'92re from?\
\
Nida\
You first.\
\
CLARK\
Born and raised in the hip happening all-around swanky town of\'85 Sacramento.\
\
NIDA\
You're from Sac? Cool. That's where my boyfriend's from.\
\
\page CLARK\
Oh\'85 your boyfriend. \
\
NIDA\
Yeah.\
\
CLARK\
From Elk Grove.\
\
NIDA\
Yeah. How did you know he's from Elk Grove?\
\
CLARK\
What? My bad. I thought you asked where I grew up and I was just saying that my family's from Elk Grove. 
\i (beat)
\i0  So, I answered the first question, now it\'92s your turn.\
\
Nida\
I was born and raised right here in San Francisco.\
\
Clark\
Right answer to the wrong question. But, I\'92ll start you off with an easy one then\'85 if you didn\'92t have any borders, so to speak, where would you want to be right now?\
\
Nida\
There isn\'92t an simple answer to your so-called, \'93starting off easy question\'94, Clark? There\'92s like a lot factors.\
\
Clark\
As I said, there are no longer any obstacles for you. A \'93yellow brick road\'94 is cleared to your happiness. What\'92s waiting for you at the end of your journey, Nida?\
\
\
NIDA\
A stage. That\'92s where I\'92d be. Home. (beat) You know, this is stupid, cuz that isn\'92t real life. Acting is just a game. You grow up and you find that there's more to life that's more important than playing a game.\
\
CLARK\
Like your boyfriend?\
\
\page NIDA\
Not entirely, but a big factor. After my dad died, I didn't have anybody else except for my boyfriend. I needed him and he said he needed me. I didn't have Shakespeare to help me pick up the pieces of my life after I had no family left and a mortgage to pay. I'm sorry, but I can't afford to play games anymore.\
\
CLARK\
So acting doesn't pay the bills, but it does give you something that money can't \'96 the feeling of being Home. You said it yourself. And Jeff should've realized that.\
\
NIDA\
How'd you know that his name is Jeff?\
\
CLARK\
When I was younger, I'd come home from school and I knew if my dad had hit my mom. She\'92d say, \'93Don\'92t worry, Michael. I\'92m going to be okay.\'94 She\'92d still be alive if I helped her the same way I\'92m helping you.\
\
(Nida frantically picks up her cell phone and pushes a button to make a call.)\
\
(A ring tone sounds from CLARK\'92s bag. Ring tone continues as CLARK continues to speak.)\
\
CLARK\
He\'92s the one that made you quit acting and school because he was afraid you\'92d tell people what he\'92s been doing to you? Like the bruise on your back when he threw you against the wall last week when he saw you talking to your ex-boyfriend.\
\
JEFF\
(voice-mail greeting) \
O.S.\
Wat up? You reached Jeff and I\'92m not in. You know what to do at the tone! Later. (beep)\
\
\page Clark\
You don\'92t lead too much of a ho-hum existence, Nida
\f1 . 
\f0 From the first time I read your blog, I knew you needed my help. And about Jeff? You don\'92t need to know. It\'92s over now.\
\
(Clark closes the cover of her laptop.)\
\
(Lights fade.)\
 \
END OF SCENE\
}