{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1038\cocoasubrtf350
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Optima-Regular;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\fi360\sl288\slmult1\sb160\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\fs26 \cf0 I\'92m not saying I\'92m ripping this off, but I will call this an homage! Hehe. Okay, I\'92m going to play this by memory.\
I love the play \'93Girl Most Likely Too\'94 and one of the things that struck me about that play is it\'92s structure:\
2 Throughlines \
	1) The Main Character of Bella\
	2) Bella\'92s Uncle who is also a drag queen.\
We see the two different parallel stories unfold in different places and times, but closely related. There is also the beautiful link between the two stories of the Mother character.\
---\
In terms of structure, I also love plays that are bookended. Where something is referred to at the beginning of the play and then the play ends with that same action or scene:\
The idea for this play is that as the different characters are introduced in the first act, another part of the stage, we see glimpses of different people answering phone calls from My Sister\'92s house. \'93Thank you for calling My Sister\'92s House. This is Amy. How may I help you?\'94\'85 and then by the end of the play, the main character answers the phone with \'93Thank you for calling My Sister\'92s House. This is Esperanza. How may I help you?\'94\
\'97\
Another \'93device\'94 that I\'92ve seen and I will stay away from, just because it feels forced is the Monologue Scene between the \'93action\'94 scenes. I think other writers get this idea from Musicals where each main character gets a solo to kinda sing their \'93I Want\'94 Song. I guess I\'92m writing this down here to make sure that I don\'92t use this! LOL.\
\'97\
The game plan for the night is to write a treatment.\
\'97\
\
6/18/11: I\'92m still trying to think of what to write\
\
\'97\
Fail}