{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1038\cocoasubrtf350
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Optima-Regular;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\fi360\sl288\slmult1\sb160\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\fs26 \cf0 Started from my blog written on 6/18, continued at Cafe Garden Sac. 6/19\
\

\b What do I imagine this story looking like?\

\b0 I see this as a boy meets girl, boy loses girl, girl finds herself story. That sounds cute when put that way. So I guess in a way, this is a story about how a person finds their true self through adversity which only makes them, not only stronger, but also happy, and also able to help others where whom were in that situation.\
\

\b What happens at the end of the story?\

\b0 "Hello. This is <name here>. Thank you for calling My Sister's House. How can I help you?"\
\

\b Who's the protagonist?\

\b0 A young woman named Esperanza (for now). The initial reason I picked this name is because Esperanza means hope. Sometimes when a person is a the end of their rope, hope usually the last thing they find or look for.\
I want Esperanza's arc to be happy > friendly > colorful > creative > opinionated > assured > wanting to please others > wanting to please bf > not sure > shy > timid > grey > fire > firm > strong > hopeful > helpful. \
\

\b What does Esperanza want?\

\b0 She wants to no longer feel afraid. She wants to be independent. She wants to find who she is not only as an artist, but especially as a person. She\'92s lost that sense of self because of the controlling nature of Chris. She wants her voice back.\
\

\b Will she get it? If so, how? Basically, how does the story end?
\b0 \
Yes. But it\'92s going to take the work of her friends and members of the community to step up and tell her that they are there for her and that they won\'92t abandon her. I want the play to open and close with a song\'85 maybe. It would be a good theme as she starts off as being a singer/songwriter and then losing that voice, and then to finally find it again. How? It happens at a Community Event where people tell him that it\'92s not okay how she is treating her. Plus it has to be from a person who has let things happen or who had the opinion that what happens in a family, stays in the family.\
\

\b Who is the antagonist?
\b0 \
A young man named Chris (for now). Chris comes from a cycle of abuse in his family. Unfortunately, this is all he knows. He needs help too to stop this cycle. \
\

\b What does Chris want?
\b0 \
Chris wants Esperanza for himself. He feels like he doesn\'92t have anything left except for her, and that\'92s one of the reasons he abuses her - to completely break her down so that she\'92s dependent on him. He doesn\'92t want to lose her. That\'92s his biggest fear. Unfortunately, the only way he can think of to not lose her is by continuing the abuse and control.\
\

\b How do they meet?
\b0 \
At a community function. It's important that the Community be the third partner in this party as they have to be part of the solution. I see Esperanza being a singer/songwriter. I see Chris as a Poet. He's as quiet as he is smart, which means very. They meet at the Philippine Fiesta where she has just sang. Funny, trite lyrics, but catchy melody. He says something snarky about her lyrics. Which catches her attention, but leaves her wondering who this douche is. Then he performs a poetry set. Beautiful and complex and maybe a little heady. They are opposites, but they are both passionate about their art. That's how they meet.\
\

\b What are a couple of things that signal abuse has occurred in this relationship?
\b0 \
After a petty argument about something small, he will start to yell at her. Her friends may see it. (To be continued\'85)\
\

\b Who are the characters to help her on this journey to help?
\b0 \
Melissa (for now) has been her bff since middle school. She\'92s the serious one in school. She has her life pretty much planned out. She is the organizer.  She has a good head on her shoulders.   She know Esperanza better than Esperanza knows Esperanza. She volunteers at My Sister\'92s House and has to be the voice of that organization. \
Great. I just finished writing my logline and I had the CRAZY idea that support will come from an unlikely source. Now, WHO COULD THAT BE!? To be unlikely, it has to be someone who has been against her all this time. I\'92m thinking of either her mom or dad, someone who is a leader in the community. Cool. Threads are starting to be tied.	\
\

\b Where is this story set?
\b0 \
This play takes place in Sacramento. I like it when a play that is performed in a community has references to that location. Of course, as long as it isn\'92t overt and not too expository. Just leave the references as a part of the story. Since a majority of what I know about Sacramento takes place in South Sac, then this is where it\'92ll be.\
I changed my mind. I want this play to be more universal, yet give the audience a familiar home\'85 Midtown Sacramento. In a way, since the characters are made up, what happens is what happened to real people. Real Stories. So with the setting, the location is real, but the specifics are fictional. So, I can make up the name of the Filipino Organization, characters, Restaurants, but stick with Landmark locations, like the Tower theater, and street names. I wonder how that would work\'85\

\i With regards to the play, in technical terms, where do the scenes take place?
\i0  \
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\li720\fi-720\sl288\slmult1\sb160\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\ls1\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	\'95	}At a Community Center, \
{\listtext	\'95	}Inside a living room, \
{\listtext	\'95	}My Sister\'92s House Office\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\fi360\sl288\slmult1\sb160\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 \

\b When does this story take place?
\b0 \
Current\
\

\b What clues from the title give the audience about what the story is about?
\b0 \
That\'92s actually a really good question, especially because of the audience I\'92m writing for. I don\'92t want it to be too cryptic, but I do want it to be poetic. Meaning that I don\'92t want to have a generic title.\
\

\b What is the main idea?
\b0 \
The main idea of this play is to not stand by when Domestic Violence is happening. Any act of violence, cruelty, abuse, or anything that tears down another person\'92s human dignity needs to be protected by the community. When one person\'92s voice is silenced, then it is the community\'92s responsibility to speak up for them. To give them a voice which shall be heard.\
\

\b What is the main plot?
\b0 \
Watching Esperanza leave an abusive relationship and discover herself.\
\

\b What is the conflict?
\b0 \
Esperanza wants to leave, but Chris doesn\'92t want to let her go. He wants to control her.\
\
}